(dramatic music playing)
ABBY:
Previously on Dance Moms...
We will be traveling to California
to go to the iHollywood competition.
Remember, this is the road to nationals.
We are on our way.
Maddie is doing a solo this weekend.
Abby's gonna tell you you're doing a solo,
and you're not.
ANNOUNCER:
And our top junior soloist.
Justin takes it.
ABBY:
Maddie, do you get it?
Do you understand why
I wanted you to do your solo?
Paige hurts her foot.
You're not in the dance.
ABBY:
Coming up on Dance Moms...
This is the competition that determines
who is dancing at nationals.
Do I have a solo?
I'm just not sure yet.
Toughen up.
You're going to go to an audition
and not get picked someday.
While I'm out here in LA,
we want to record Brooke's
song professionally,
and we want you guys
to be her backup singers.
SINGER: ♪ Play that racket
till the sun goes down ♪
♪ From the beach to the party
to the underground ♪
Got to forget about the pain
and you have to do
what you know how to do.
(dramatic music playing)
(crying)
(theme music playing)
SINGER:
♪ Get up ♪
♪ Get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls
living on the dance floor ♪
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY:
Girls, let's go.
Moms, welcome to Millennium.
This is one of the premiere
dance studios in LA.
I'm really excited to be dancing
at Millennium Dance Studio.
Christina Aguilera and Britney Spears
rehearsed there.
It's just really cool to think about.
All right, ladies, this week,
we are staying right here in California.
(applause)
ABBY: Yes.
But I want to talk about
the iHollywood competition.
You are not focused on that competition.
Hey, guys, I need everybody dressed.
I haven't even said who's in the dance
and who isn't in the dance.
And I want to compliment
each and every one of you
on that little girl, Nicaya
that came to our studio.
I want everyone to notice this pyramid,
that there's no Kaya
and no little Nicaya.
You were all friendly.
You all behaved like
nice, young ladies.
You guys, I don't know
what happened.
You don't know a thing, (bleep).
Uh, beat it, (bleep).
Don't let the door hit you
on the way out then.
Thank you, moms.
They've run off another potential student.
Let's put iHollywood behind us.
We are moving on to the pyramid.
On the bottom of the pyramid...
Kendall,
you're back on the team.
That's where you have to start.
I thought you were outstanding
in the group routine.
(applause)
It's those shoulders,
the technique,
everything that has to
continue to improve.
I tried my hardest
to get back on this team,
but I'm also sad
because I don't think it's fair
that I have to be last on pyramid.
ABBY: Next.
Paige, you're coming off an injury.
You did the group routine.
I thought you did very well.
(dramatic music playing)
You should be 100% by this week.
You need to dance full out.
Paige hasn't done a solo in weeks.
She needs to get out on that stage
and start dancing again.
Come on, Paige,
show me what you have.
And next, Brooke.
You were in a group dance
and you did not finish the routine in time
with everybody else.
And next, we have Maddie.
Maddie, in the group dance,
you just kind of blended in.
A dancer like you
should stand out amongst the crowd.
Maddie was at the bottom row,
so it is what it is.
What are you going to do?
Moving up the ladder, Nia.
You were given something different.
The music was very difficult
for me to choreograph to.
It was also difficult to dance to.
I thought you handled it really well.
(gentle music playing)
Your big problem
is the technique,
so you need to step it up, babe.
Next, Chloe.
Chloe, you made the top five.
I want number one.
You need to be consistent.
You came out.
You did two turns
and bobbled all over the place.
This is the week before nationals,
so now I'm feeling pressure
to do really good.
On top of the pyramid is Mackenzie.
Mackenzie was third overall
high scorer in her division,
so that put her on top of the pyramid,
and I was very proud of you.
MELISSA: Mackenzie's on the top
of the pyramid this week.
She's very excited
because it doesn't happen
very often for her.
So she's really tickled.
This week, we will be attending
In10sity Dance Competition.
This is the competition that determines
who is dancing at nationals.
This is a really big week for us.
I need to figure out
what's going to nationals,
so I proceed to announce the new
routines for In10sity Dance.
Mackenzie, you are doing a solo.
(applause)
ABBY:
It's called "A Perfect Day in the Sun."
Chloe, you will be doing another
contemporary lyrical routine
entitled "Ghost."
And Paige, you have a solo also.
(cheering and applause)
Kendall, you will be doing a solo.
The name of your is "Kiss Kiss."
Nia, we're changing it up again for you.
You're going to be doing
a '60s-inspired number.
And Brooke,
you're going to have to get
your butt up in the air.
The name of your solo is "Fly."
So all of your aerial work
needs to be in there.
I see Melissa out of the corner
of my eye going...
(soft voice)
"Maddie, get your hand up."
Maddie, get your hand.
Raise your hand.
Melissa, butt out.
Do I have a solo?
I know darn well
that Maddie is one of the
strongest dancers on my team
and that she should be doing a solo.
But you know what?
I can't give her one.
Maddie, I'm not hurting your feelings.
She has to want it.
Maddie has to come to me
and beg for that solo back.
But I have a bunch of other kids
that want to do solos.
She wants to do a solo very bad.
I understand that,
but you interrupted her
and wanted her not to do it
because you were afraid
of losing all your friends.
MELISSA: It was really hard
to see Maddie's face.
I'm the one that didn't let her
do a solo a few weeks ago.
Abby's gonna tell you you're doing a solo,
and you're not.
And I'm not trying to speak
for my children,
but it's very hard
when you see your child cry.
ABBY:
Maddie, toughen up.
You're going to go to an audition
and not get picked some day.
Get it?
And you need to stand there
with a smile on your face.
Everything for nationals
rests on how they perform this week.
And I, at this point,
I feel so sad for Maddie
because she's upset that
she doesn't have a solo,
and then she's dealing with like
Abby's pent up frustration
that she's no longer her favorite.
All right.
Moms, you're dismissed.
Ladies, spread apart.
Let's start warming up.
Reach towards the mirror. Arch.
Two, three, four.
Nationals is next week,
so to prepare,
I'm giving each one of the girls a solo
at In10sity Dance Competition.
Well, almost everybody.
Maddie was trying to fight back the tears,
but she just couldn't, you know.
KELLY: But why was she crying,
just because she didn't get a solo?
Yeah. I mean, because
everybody has a solo.
-And when your--
-Melissa, my kids
-never have a solo, ever.
-I know, but if--
Kelly, if you're all--if everybody
got a solo except your daughter,
you don't think she would be hurt?
If my kid goes up and raises
her hand and asks for a solo,
is she going to give her one?
Mm-hmm.
-No.
-CHRISTI: No.
No! So why does it work that way?
-Because my kids would like...
-But she can get--
to have a solo every week, too.
It gets to work that way for Maddie.
When Brooke was little,
she used to be the favorite.
She used to be the "Maddie" of the group.
And this is how Abby works.
She finds somebody
that's young and amazing,
and then once they win it all
and they start losing the ambition,
because she burns them out,
she moves on to somebody else.
Mackenzie, you only have four days
to learn this solo.
You need to step it up. Get it?
All right. So it's called
"A Perfect Day in the Sun."
Mackenzie has a darling little solo.
I just hope she can remember.
And go.
Chaine.
(French)
Sit.
Boom.
Up. (indistinct)
Just here.
No body roll.
But you're facing this way.
You need to face the corner.
It's a lot of pressure because
I'm at the top of the pyramid
and I have to remember it all.
(chuckles)
I'm leaving.
Where are you going?
I'm going to take my kids somewhere.
To do what?
Just leaving.
There's only 20 minutes left so...
-What have you got going on?
-I'm just going.
I'm leaving.
I'm going. There's no reason to be here.
My liar radar went up.
Beep, beep, beep, beep.
Because there is no way
Melissa was leaving dance early
because dance is her life.
I knew she was going somewhere.
It was somewhere important.
Please.
She probably has meeting, meeting,
meeting, meeting, meeting,
meeting, meeting,
-commercial meeting set up.
-But why is it such a secret?
Like why does she just sneak out
and do it behind our backs?
That's how she operates.
Okay, come on, kids.
Right here in this cool door.
JEN: Hi, gorgeous.
How are you?
-Hello.
-Hi, Katie. How are you?
I have been in contact with an agency
since last summer,
so I thought I'd take my children
to a general meeting,
to MSA.
How long have you been dancing, honey?
For seven years.
Okay, great.
Well, I think you guys
would be really fantastic,
obviously, for commercials.
Commercials are great for kids.
What would the next step be
'cause we like--
to get Mackenzie into a commercial,
or you know.
As soon as something comes up
that they're right for, you know,
I'll let you guys know.
I'll submit them
and we'll go from there.
-Okay, great.
-JEN: Cool?
-Thank you so much...
-You're welcome.
...for meeting with us
on such short notice.
I understand.
It's no problem.
Maddie and Kenzie both shined
at the interview, I feel,
and Jen and the girls
really made a connection.
So I'm hoping for the best.
(chatter)
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: So ready?
Let's take it from the top.
("City Of Angels" playing)
♪ See the yoga buddies
in their SUVs ♪
♪ They got their cups of coffee
and their inner peace ♪
♪ See the homeless dude
sleeping in a box ♪
♪ Just look the other way,
but it never stops ♪
PAIGE: I'm running my dance,
"City of Angels."
And I really like it,
but I know that Abby is watering it down
just because of my foot.
And it's starting to hurt,
so I don't know if I'll be able
to dance at competition.
ABBY: Let's go.
We got to move.
You're out of here.
Thank you, Kelly.
Paige's foot is not 100% healed yet,
so I can't make her run the routine
over and over and over.
It could cause more injury to the foot.
-How are you feeling?
-Do you like your number?
-Are you on the couch most of the time?
-HOLLY: Don't cry.
-Oh, no, no, no.
-JILL: Don't cry, Paige.
KELLY:
Did Abby say something?
My foot hurts.
KELLY:
Paige has had a broken foot.
And for her to go out there
after having one hour
to learn a dance
and to practice on a prop is not fair.
(subtle music playing)
Hi, ladies.
Hey.
ABBY:
This is a busy day for me.
We have two more days
until the competition,
48 hours.
I have six solos to look at.
So girls, we're going to work.
(soft dance music playing)
Chloe is doing a routine called "Ghost."
The music is pretty.
It gets bigger and bigger.
I think this is a good number for her.
(soft dance music continuing)
ABBY: Chloe, remember,
I am watching everybody.
This routine this week
is my decision for nationals.
I've been very impressed with
Chloe for the last two weeks.
She's worked hard.
Keep working on it.
Tell me a story.
This kid has got it.
So guys, Brooke and I were talking,
and you know how she wrote a song?
While I'm out here in LA,
we want to record Brooke's
song professionally,
(gasps)
-That's awesome.
-...and we want you guys
to come with us
and be her backup singers.
(gasps)
(cheering)
Brooke wants to have a singing career.
Well, I've hired a music producer
to record her song.
SINGER:
♪ Woo, come on, girls ♪
♪ We got a bunch of kids,
the coolest ones around ♪
♪ Shake it, shake it, baby,
make the world go round ♪
Nia's routine is packed
full of entertainment value.
SINGER:
♪ We're going to get the party going ♪
♪ Pump that crowd ♪
♪ Shake it ♪
And that's Nia does best.
Okay, this is a '60s number.
Some people may love it.
Some people may hate it.
You have to make them love you,
regardless of the choreography
or the costume
or the music.
Get it?
All right.
So yesterday, I got a phone call.
We had a general meeting with MSA.
It was pretty cool.
Like they really liked Mackenzie.
CHRISTI:
Melissa hates to be one upped.
As soon as Kelly said
she was doing anything for her kids,
Melissa's like, "Oh, I already
did something for mine."
I took them to an agent.
Why didn't you tell us
you were going somewhere?
Because I just wanted to go.
Because you like to do
stuff without telling us.
Yeah, why was it such a big secret?
They called me yesterday
and asked if they could see me.
But you still could have told us.
Like that's what we get
mad about, Melissa.
I just think that these kinds of things
are the things that make Maddie feel bad.
Maddie wants to be part of our group.
MELISSA:
I know she does.
But you and Abby don't let her.
JILL:
Are you going to tell Abby?
Is this something that
is her business or--
I'm just curious.
Yesterday, Melissa left
the rehearsal early
with both of her kids.
I don't know where she went,
but I'm gonna get to the bottom of it.
So tell me where you went.
We went to MSA.
-ABBY: To a guy?
-A girl.
MACKENZIE:
We went to a girl named Jen.
Okay, I know Jen.
I know who Jen is.
Does anybody know?
I think my mom told everyone
you were fine with it.
(dramatic music playing)
Maddie, you can't worry
if they're not fine with it.
I've been trying to tell
your mother, who cares?
You're gonna graduate from high school
and never see these people again.
Do you get it? These vultures?
That's not the way they run,
they don't really care.
They don't care. I care.
All right?
Okay? So, get back in line,
and do not discuss MSA.
Do you understand?
Yes? All right, go ahead,
get back in there.
MACKENZIE:
Thank you.
I know Melissa wants what's best
for Maddie and Mackenzie,
but it's not about signing
them with an agent.
It's about concentrating
on their dancing,
their education,
and their training.
All right, Brooke,
you have two more days
to perfect this routine.
Your jumps need to be higher
than they ever were.
Your tumbling skills...
(snaps finger)
need to be lofty.
Let's do it.
My solo this week is called "Fly,"
and it's an acrobatic routine.
And I'm really excited.
I think it's going to do well.
SINGER:
♪ I've been waiting so long ♪
♪ Been so patient
for you to bloom ♪
Smile.
Lock that left feet.
SINGER:
♪ I know we can fly ♪
(claps)
All right, a lot of it's wonderful.
Take the music.
Listen to it.
Find the story in it.
And tell everybody.
Do something with this.
I think her performance
of the choreography
is outstanding,
except the face.
Is she going to go out on stage
and be poetic
and impress the judges?
I don't know.
All right.
-KELLY: Hi. How are you?
-BROOKE: Hi.
-This is Brooke.
-Hey Brooke. How are you doing?
I am so excited to give all
the girls an opportunity
to go to a real recording studio.
I don't think that the girls have a lot
of opportunities in Pittsburgh,
but I think that now
that we're in LA,
that we need to take advantage of this.
("Summer Love Song" playing)
(singing)
♪ Oh, yeah ♪
♪ Friday night ♪
♪ It feels so right ♪
♪ Cool breeze in the August sky ♪
We're recording "Summer Love Song"
in Seven Studio,
and it's with my best friend.
It's awesome.
(singing) ♪ Come on, come on,
come on, come on, come on ♪
♪ Come on ♪
♪ And play that racket
till the sun goes down ♪
♪ From the beach to the party
to the underground ♪
♪ Let me keep on cruising ♪
♪ Put your hands in the air ♪
♪ Keep grooving ♪
KELLY: I don't know what
is going to come out
of recording this song.
I just hope that at the end of the day,
everybody had a good time doing this
and it was a positive thing for them.
-SEVEN: You did a great job.
-GIRLS: Woo!
All right, Kendall,
the routine is "Kiss Kiss."
It's not very deep,
but you have to go out there
and entertain the audience.
Kendall may be back on the team,
but she's got a long way to go
to climb up that pyramid.
Her solo this week
better not disappoint me.
Let's do it.
(electronic dance music playing)
It's really important that I try
my hardest this week
because I really want
a solo at nationals.
Watch your elbows.
Don't break your elbows there.
Energy.
Shoulders up.
There's some lyrics in there
that you're not hearing about the tears.
I don't see that.
Go. Just wait.
Let's see how long it takes Kendall
to buzz right by people
to the top of that pyramid.
So what's up with you?
I really want a solo this week.
I feel like every time I do a solo,
I feel more happier.
And you threw that all away.
I wanted you to do a solo
to freak out Justice,
and I think you should
have done it for me.
You know what?
I feel like I'm giving you an opportunity
and you're crapping all over me.
You need to tell me why
you shouldn't do a solo.
I'm the only one that doesn't
have a solo this week, so.
That's not a reason.
It has to come from here, Maddie.
You have to want it.
I don't want to see Maddie upset,
but I have to teach Maddie a lesson.
It shouldn't come so easy.
You have to want it like everybody else.
You have to work on it
like everybody else.
And you have to go out there
and prove yourself,
just like everybody else.
I want you to want it.
(upbeat music playing)
Megaphone, where is it?
Being the manager that I am,
I see a golden opportunity.
Let's take this little CD
that Brooke's made.
Let's take the music
and let's do a video.
Let's go.
I have a vision for this video.
I see the girls up on top of one
of those sightseeing buses
that tour all over the Los Angeles area.
They're going to be up there
dancing in their seats,
swinging their arms around.
Fun, fun, fun.
That's what I want to see.
And action.
("Summer Love Song" playing)
(singing)
♪ Oh, yeah ♪
Brooke, you're not playing to the camera.
All I'm getting is the side of your hair
and your face like this.
I'm really excited I'm shooting
my own music video,
but Abby's sucking
all the fun out of it.
She keeps yelling at us.
ABBY:
That's all I see.
Turn your head
and look in the camera.
Quit putting your arms up in front
of someone else's face.
You know, I'm glad that Abby
wants to be a part of it,
but why does she have to take charge?
Run up.
Run down.
You're just having fun.
Like da, da, da.
You don't even know
there's a camera on you.
Up, up, up,
and down, down, down.
And back up in the middle.
Oh, there's some guy
taking my picture.
Yes? And then turn up.
High arms, big butt.
Look, and then take
that camera with you.
Got it? All right, ready?
A lot of the ideas that Abby
has for the video
I think are cute.
Action, Mackenzie. Go.
MACKENZIE:
One, two, three.
Action.
ABBY:
Good girl. Nice.
Did you get that, Nia?
-Yes.
-Are you sure?
-I'm positive.
-ABBY: Okay.
Shooting a music video in LA?
I mean, come on.
That's a dream job.
Run, Maddie, run.
We all got a special part
in the music video.
ABBY: Run. Dance.
Go, go, go.
MADDIE: Miss Abby's having me
dance out in the street.
I think this is one of the best days ever.
(cheering)
KELLY:
Good job, guys.
ABBY:
Yeah. We're done.
All right, ladies.
I only have the studio
for 45 more minutes,
because we did a video today.
This week is very important.
I'm making my decision
on who gets to dance at nationals.
So these girls need to bring
everything they have
and impress me with their solos.
I really wanted to do a solo this week
because of the competition
and because we're in LA,
and I just love doing solos.
All right. Well, if you love doing solos,
then whenever you're offered one,
you should jump at the opportunity,
because it's not going to always come by.
I can tell Maddie really wants a solo,
and I think she's learned her lesson,
so it's time to put this kid
back in the game.
Maddie, you haven't had a solo in weeks,
so this is your big chance to show me
that you still have the ambition.
I'm so glad Miss Abby
gave me a solo,
because I think that
I really deserved it,
and I don't want to let her down.
ABBY: Turn your knees out
when you land that chaine.
You're not stepping on
a turned out foot.
Lean your back foot in the attitude.
You are rusty, kid.
I always expected that Maddie
would have a solo going into nationals.
I knew she was going to have a solo,
whether she took off
two weeks, five weeks.
I don't want that kid
to go to nationals.
I think the most telling thing in there,
when she was yelling at Maddie
that she was rusty after three weeks.
Hello? None of the other kids ever dance.
It proved our point.
You only get better
by having more practice on stage.
(gentle acoustic music playing)
SINGER:
♪ And I just threw it away ♪
I think I'm ready to pull off a solo,
but I need to show Miss Abby
that I did deserve it.
ABBY:
Okay, stand up.
You wanted this solo,
you got it.
The kids are working their
butts off to impress me.
If these girls wanna dance at nationals,
they're gonna have to prove it to me
at In10sity Dance Competition.
All right.
We're all good for today.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: This is it.
We arrive at the competition.
It's a professional working
theater here in Los Angeles.
(cheering and applause)
Woo. Nice space.
This competition is very important
for my girls.
Not only do they have to win,
but they have to impress me.
I'm making my decision for nationals.
These solos today need to be top notch.
Today is not the day for mistakes.
Girls, you have to understand.
Not only is just today a big day
because of the other dance studios
that are here,
but this is the end of the road.
Maybe the end of the line for some of you.
People always say
I put pressure on my girls.
I think that's a bunch of bunk.
This is your last opportunity
to impress me before nationals.
I need to pick who's going,
and it's not going to be everybody.
I want a great performance. Are you ready?
-Yes.
-Kendall...
this is your first solo
back on the team as an official member,
so you need to impress me, kiddo.
All right.
Let's do it. Game faces.
(suspenseful music playing)
The only thing I care about
in the world right now is my solo.
ANNOUNCER: And next to the In10sity stage
is act number 20.
This is "It's a Perfect Day for Fun."
(cheering)
("It's a Perfect Day for Fun" playing)
SINGER: ♪It's a perfect day
to run and play ♪
♪It's a perfect day for fun ♪
♪The sky is blue and all I gotta do ♪
♪Is hitch a ride with the sun ♪
♪I'm going to head out west ♪
♪ And do my best
to smile and laugh a ton ♪
(tense music playing)
Mackenzie steps on stage and goes blank.
Please.
Keep going. Keep going.
SINGER: ♪It's a perfect day
to laugh and play ♪
♪It's a perfect day for fun ♪
♪It's a perfect day to run and day ♪
♪The sky is blue and all I got to do ♪
♪Is hitch a ride with the sun ♪
(cheering)
ANNOUNCER: That was act number 20,
It's a Perfect Day for Fun.
ABBY: Mackenzie did a routine.
Could it have been better?
Yes, absolutely.
Did you forget it?
Just one part of it and I kept going.
In my solo, I forgot a split second
and then I kept going on.
But I'm worried that Abby's
going to be really mad at me.
ANNOUNCER: And next to the In10sity stage
is act number 31.
Please welcome Kiss Kiss.
(cheering)
(jazz music playing)
I have to admit,
I'm very nervous watching this solo.
I hate to put this much pressure
on my child,
but she has to win because I really want
her there at nationals
competing against these kids.
SINGER: ♪I've had enough ♪
♪I tell myself, come on, get up ♪
♪Kiss, kiss, baby ♪
♪Going to miss this, baby ♪
♪ I'll see ya ♪
♪Now I'm moving on ♪
♪Kiss, kiss, baby ♪
♪Going to miss this, baby ♪
♪Oh ♪
♪Kiss this ♪
(cheering and applauding)
ANNOUNCER: That was Kiss Kiss, number 31.
KENDALL: When I came off stage
after my solo,
I thought I did great.
And I just wanted to show Abby
what I could do
because I really want a solo at nationals.
(cheering)
Mackenzie, you looked fabulous.
You did great, honey. I'm so proud.
Look, you did great.
Listen, your turns, your legs.
Well, we're off to a good start,
would you say?
Yes.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: I'm outside that door
and I'm hearing the word perfect, perfect.
You know that was not perfect, right?
You went out there and did down,
straddle jump, down, stood up,
and everybody in that whole place knew
you forgot what to do.
I knew, you know you forgot what to do,
and so did every judge
and everybody in the whole building.
Come on, Mackenzie,
you had that in the bag.
Kendall, I thought you did a nice job.
I ask you to use your face.
I wanted to see it change
and see you look at the judges.
You did just that.
Could things have been better?
Yeah, they can always be better.
You guys need to come off that stage
knowing it's the best you've ever danced.
You don't fly 3,000 miles
to do it 80% or 90%.
Are these girls
really trying to impress me?
This is the best they can muster?
If you're trying to impress me
for nationals,
it's not happening.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: Maddie, you and Nia are up next.
You haven't done a solo in what,
three weeks now?
Are you going to get out there and choke?
Are you going to be average?
Or are you going to be exceptional?
Exceptional.
Let's hope.
All I've said to the girls
this week is, "Hey,
this is your last opportunity
to impress me before nationals."
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome,
"I Like the '60s."
("Shake It" by Broadway Puppies playing)
♪ Woo! Come on, girls! ♪
♪We got a bunch of kids
the coolest ones around ♪
♪Then shake it, shake it, baby
make the world go round ♪
♪Just keep yourself dancing
keep it nice and loud ♪
♪We're going to get the party going
Pump that crowd ♪
♪Shake it ♪
♪Come on, shake it ♪
♪Because music makes you lose it
when it's in your soul ♪
♪Just jump up and ground it
baby, rock and roll ♪
♪'Cause when you're cool like us ♪
♪ Your feet keep moving around
and around and around ♪
♪And shake it ♪
♪Yeah, shake it ♪
♪Come on, shake it ♪
♪Shake it ♪
(cheers and applause)
Throughout the routine,
Nia's face was off the charts.
She was great.
I need to show Abby that she made
the right choice to give me the solo.
ANNOUNCER: And next to the In10sity stage
is act number 52.
Put your hands together for Maddie
performing Piece in My Heart.
(cheering)
("Piece in my Heart" by Yami Lee playing)
♪I wonder if you ever thought of me ♪
♪ And how I'm doing ♪
♪And I wonder if you ever said ♪
♪ Gosh, I miss her ♪
♪And why didn't I fight? ♪
♪And I let you go ♪
♪ But you will always ♪
♪ Have a little piece ♪
♪ In my heart ♪
(cheering)
Beautiful.
I think this is Maddie's best routine
she's ever done.
I mean ever.
Thank you for making her the way you do.
I love you.
You know that?
ABBY: Maddie's routine
was close to perfection.
She went out there
and she entertained the audience.
Listen to the music,
so that was really good.
There's one thing,
it was towards the beginning.
Chloe and Paige are up next
for their solos.
I am really concerned about Paige.
Chloe and Paige,
we have like 10 more minutes.
Let's get it focused here, okay?
She did not get a lot of practice time
because she keeps complaining
that her foot hurts.
This is it. It's unfortunate
that you're still injured,
but you know what?
You've got to go out there,
and for 2 minutes and 30 seconds,
you got to forget about the pain
and you have to do
what you know how to do.
I mean, for this kid just to be coming
off of a broken foot,
I'm going to be glad to see her on stage
doing this routine.
Eyes up.
You're spotting the floor,
that's why you're falling over.
Stomach. Stomach.
Face.
It's gorgeous, except you went like--
elongate your arm.
Good.
Chloe's feeling pretty good
about the solo.
I think that she knows
if she goes out there and nails it,
that she really has a good chance
of doing a solo at nationals.
ABBY: All right, girls, we need to go.
(applause)
CHLOE: I've rehearsed "Ghost" a lot,
and I've gone over what
my facial expression should be,
so I'm feeling pretty confident.
ANNOUNCER: Put your hands together
for act number 59 performing "Ghost."
(cheering and applauding)
SINGER: ♪If you're scared
don't be scared when I'm gone ♪
♪Don't be afraid to turn off the lights ♪
♪ When you leave me ♪
♪If you're scared
then I'm always around ♪
♪As your angel ♪
♪ I'll say your prayer when you need me ♪
It is so frustrating to me as a mom
that Abby is putting so much pressure
on these girls
and say, "All of my decisions
for nationals
are based on this one performance.
What about the other 673,000 weeks
that they've danced?
Doesn't that have
any weight for you, Abby?
(music continuing)
(applause)
CHLOE: I'm proud for what I did,
but I could have done better.
So whatever happens happens.
PAIGE: I'm really worried about my solo
because my foot hurts really bad.
But I don't want to mess up
because Abby will be really mad at me.
ANNOUNCER: All right, Los Angeles,
please welcome Paige
performing City of Angels.
Yay!
("City of Angels"
by Fiona Kerhaghan playing)
♪See the yoga bunnies in their SUVs ♪
♪They got their custom coffee
and their inner peace ♪
♪See the homeless dude
sleeping in a box ♪
♪ Just a feet away but it never stops ♪
♪City of Angels ♪
♪ But nobody wants to use their wings ♪
♪One day I'll fly away ♪
♪Till then I'll blend in ♪
(vocalizing)
♪La-la land ♪
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Act number 64, City of Angels.
ABBY: I'm really proud of Paige
for going out there and dancing.
Even though her doctor's cleared her,
she's not 100% yet.
It's going to take a lot of time
for Paige to get back where she was,
even if that means
no dancing at nationals.
Don't cry.
Oh, Paige, it's fine.
You are fine.
Don't cry.
(indistinct)
I think that it's unfair of Abby
to make this one week...
you know, your option if you're dancing
at nationals or not.
I'm not going to get to do
anything at nationals.
KELLY: It's okay. It's all right.
(dramatic music playing)
(applause)
Brooke, come on. Stretch out.
Since nationals is next week,
I'm treating these solo performances
as if it were an audition.
Last one to go is Brooke.
The pressure is on.
You ready?
You need to run it over again?
Brooke, you can get out there
and you can be gorgeous
and everybody's going to leave here
talking about the acrobat
and how great she was.
Or you're going to go out
and crash and burn.
It's up to you, kid.
I'm about to go onstage for Fly,
and I'm pretty confident,
but I'm just kind of scared
I'm going to forget it,
like Mackenzie.
ANNOUNCER: Moving on to number 100,
this is a teen solo.
Give it up for Fly.
(cheering)
("Fly" by Alisa Shamrow playing)
♪Look at me across the room ♪
♪ I have been waiting so long ♪
♪Been so patient for you to bloom ♪
♪Though, it's not just the things
that you say ♪
♪Somehow you surround me
with all that I've wished for ♪
♪And I'm swept away ♪
♪I'm hoping one day ♪
♪ You might give it a try ♪
♪Then we can fly ♪
(cheering)
Fly went really good.
I hit all my tricks
and I didn't forget my dance.
What did you like better, Brooke,
recording your own song,
doing a music video, or dancing?
Music video and singing.
(suspenseful music playing)
Ladies and gentlemen,
we are ready to begin
with our divisional overall.
Well, we are going to start off
in the elite
mini solo division of the competition.
Your highest scoring elite mini soloist
is Miss Mackenzie, act number 20,
It's a Perfect Day for Fun.
(cheering)
Congratulations to all
of our elite mini soloists.
I got first place, and I'm really excited.
We are now going to be acknowledging
our top 10
highest scoring elite junior soloists.
Sixth place is Miss Chloe
with act number 59, "Ghost."
(cheering)
CHLOE: My solo "Ghost" placed sixth.
And there were a lot of good girls here,
but I could have done better,
so I'm just going to try harder next time.
Fifth place, with a score of 270.5 points,
is Miss Kendall with act number 31,
Kiss Kiss.
JILL: Kendall has just beat Chloe.
My little girl just beat
one of Abby's "bit time" students.
This is good.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen,
your highest scoring elite junior soloist
with a score of 273.7 points is...
Miss Maddie with act number 52,
"Piece of My Heart."
(cheering)
MELISSA: So Maddie placed first.
I was so proud of her.
And, you know,
she learned her dance in one day,
and she worked her butt off
so she can win.
Congratulations to our elite
junior soloists.
NIA: I'm very disappointed
because I knew I could always do better,
and next time
I'll make sure that I do better.
CHRISTI: Maddie beat Chloe.
So did Kendall.
And I have known Abby long enough to know
that she may hold sixth place
against Chloe
and not give her a solo for nationals.
Ladies and gentlemen,
we are going to start
with our elite team of the solo division
of the competition.
Fourth place with a score of 271.2 points,
Miss Brooke with act number 301.
BROOKE: I placed fourth for Fly,
but I think Abby will still be proud of me
because she saw how amazing
the dancers were.
So I think she'll be happy with fourth.
KELLY: I'm really concerned
about nationals
because, you know, Paige went on stage
and she didn't place
and Brooke got fourth.
So my kids really don't have a good chance
of performing at nationals.
ABBY: I think, all things considered,
I'm glad that we were in the top five,
and I always am.
I just want that clean sweep.
I want to walk into a competition
and walk out winning everything.
Melissa, I guess it was your lucky day.
Both of your kids
were the overall highest winners.
You're doing something right.
Girls, this was a test for nationals.
And I said, it doesn't matter really
what the judges think.
It's what I think.
Who grew? Who learned?
This competition, ladies,
was to see what we're going to do
at nationals.
I don't know what's going to happen
next week for nationals.
I might use the whole group.
I might not.
I have to worry about what's best
for the Abby Lee Dance Company,
and if that means some people not dancing,
that's what it means.